---
title: Finding Bugs 🔎🐛
prev:
  link: ./testing-patches
next:
  link: ./submitting-patches
---

::: warning :warning: WARNING
This mostly applies to finding small bugs and making minor enhcancements to the user interface.
:::

## Look at diffs on Bugzilla

Reading comments on bugs is a great way to understand more about the issue, but reading the diffs of the patches can give you an idea about how the problem was solved. Sometimes a bug that has been patched can inform you on how to approach your solution.

Take for example the recent major patch that protects Koha from CSRF attacks.
<Bug :id="34478"/>

This patch caused many regressions throughout Koha where similar fixes needed to be applied. I happened to be using `ktd` testing a patch when the item search button that I was using stopped working. Someone on IRC pointed me to this bug which showed me how to fix the item search button. 
<Bug :id="36195"/>

This OMNIBUS bug was created to track all the related bugs. 
<Bug :id="36192"/>

## Use browser DevTools

::: tip :wrench:  TIP 
<Badge type="tip">non-clicky way</Badge>
Press `ctrl` + `shift` + `c` to open up the DevTools `Elements` tab
Hover the mouse over elements related to the bug your are looking for to highlight code in the DevTools panel
:::

Look for something unique that you can search the codebase for. Generally an element's `id` is a good one, but if you can't find it easily keep in mind it's possible for these to be dynamically generated by the template.

Use the `Console` tab to test run code and look at data in the browser.

Use the `Network` tab to look at the request headers and for `POST` requests check the payload with the form data.

## Use git grep

In the terminal or `ktd` inside the `koha` repo we can use `git grep` to search for a string in the codebase. You could also search in VSCode or in the GitHub or GitLab web interface, but `git grep` is less clicky and can git you superpowers if you learn a few tricks. Try searching for code related to your bug or code that has already solved a similar problem.

## Use git blame

Once you find a place in the code where you want to learn more about use `git blame` to find the commit hash and then `git show` to find the bug number so you can look it up on Bugzilla and read the comments.

::: tip :keyboard: TIP 
<Badge type="tip">non-clicky way</Badge>
```bash
git blame --color-by-age
git show {commit hash}
```
:::

## Try to walk through the code

For bugs that are mostly related to the user interface look at the Perl file from the url with extension `.pl` and its associated Template Toolkit file with extension `.tt`. Check the template for anything like `[% INCLUDE 'somefile.inc' %]` and open all the files. Try to get an idea of what parameters are being passed between the Perl file and the template and what is being done with them. 

